# Who needs VCs when you have friends like these?

Source: https://stackoverflow.blog/2026/04/14/who-needs-vcs-when-you-have-friends-like-these/

Runpod is an end-to-end AI cloud that provides developers with GPUs so they can build and run custom AI systems that scale.

Connect with Zhen on LinkedIn or email him at zhenlu@runpod.io.

Today’s shoutout goes to Famous Question badge winner cigol on, who won the badge for getting 10,000+ views on their question Using JavaScript, is it possible to capture the body payload from an outgoing fetch request?.

[Intro Music]

Ryan Donovan: What happens when AI relationships evolve from reliable tools to trusted confidants? Raymond Yin of The Tech Between Us and Dr. Marisa Tschopp, researcher with SCIP AG in Zurich, discuss how this evolution will shape our daily interactions with AI. Listen from your favorite podcast platform or visit mouser.com/empowering-innovation.

Ryan Donovan: Hello everyone, and welcome to the Stack Overflow Podcast, a place to talk all things software and technology. I am your host, Ryan Donovan, and today we are talking about skipping the VCs and going right to the community, building a company based on community input, and my guest for that today is Zhen Lu, who is the Co-founder and CEO of Runpod. Welcome to the show, Zhen.

Zhen Lu: Thanks so much for having me, Ryan.

Ryan Donovan: Before we get into the community driven stuff, we want to get to know our guests .Tell us a little bit about how you got into software and technology.

Zhen Lu: I took a bit of a winding path as I'm what to do. So, actually, and I'll save you the gory details, but was raised in a pretty traditionally Asian family, was really encouraged to think about higher education, medicine, legal– pretty common stuff, right? I fit pretty squarely into the stereotype, unfortunately. And so, I actually followed that because it was very interesting to me. I ended up chasing hard problems into a PhD in quantum chemistry. Really enjoyed that because it allowed me to dig into not only chemistry, but it was the intersection [of] math, chemistry, physics, [and] biology. Super interesting. Did some research on electronic structure theory of DNA base pairs. But then, eventually found myself wanting something that had a more immediate impact on the world. And so, I felt that software engineering could give me that. So, I ended up swapping into software engineering, working with my Co-founder, Pardeep, and the rest is history, if you will. So, I'm somebody that really likes challenges, and I'm not afraid to change my life around to give myself those challenges.

Ryan Donovan: It does sound like a pretty distinct change, there. So, you got into founding a company. You skipped the sort of VC path and went right to community development. We are a company at Stack Overflow that is very community driven, and it can be very insightful, but it can also be very volatile. Why did you choose to go right to the communities?

Zhen Lu: Yeah. Ryan, I would love to say that it was all in the master plan, and we knew that it was gonna work out this way, but the truth of the matter is that my Co-founder and I, we identify as software developers, right? So, prior to starting Run Pod, we worked together for about six years in the same software development team. We built the team from about eight people when we started to almost 100 people. And we found a lot of joy not only in the craft, but working with other talented people. So, when it was time to start Run Pod, and we can talk about why we decided to start Run Pod, but when it was time to do that, we really were like, what are we good at, right? We're not expert marketers, we're not expert salespeople, we're not experts in the capital markets, but what we are experts [in] is software. And so, we decided, okay, we're software developers. Let's write some software. We don't need other people's validation, money, et cetera, to just go do that. And we did end up building some servers. We funded them ourselves. We ran them in our basements, and we said, ' we have everything we need.' Let's write the software and let's see if people are actually interested in it, rather than following the more traditional path of raising the money, [and] all of that stuff. So, we were just doing what we love to do.

Ryan Donovan: Obviously, when you found a company, there are more than just, writing the software. So, what were the expectations, the theories, hypotheses, that were validated by the community by throwing out to the wolves? And what sort of things were surprises to you?

Zhen Lu: First part of the question: the thing that was really validated was that people wanted this. And so, we always set out with a pretty ambitious vision of wanting to define the next level of software development. We had the strong conviction that software development was going to move towards machine learning. At that time, gen AI wasn't really a thing, and we thought that these types of accelerators, GPUs, or otherwise, were going to become a bigger and bigger part of the entire equation. And so, when we looked at what we were doing at our day jobs, we were building some massive distributed systems in the cloud, and we were working on some pretty cool machine learning projects, as well. And so, we were like, this is pretty awful, actually, from a development experience perspective. And we were like, this is gonna just get bigger and bigger. It's just a matter of time. We didn't necessarily know if it was gonna take one year, two years, five years, 10 years, but we were cloud practitioners. What would it take for us to help build a cloud? And we missed the bus the first time around, and we didn't want to do that this time around, so we wanted to do it earlier, even if it took a couple years. Now it turns out that it was the right time to do– there was pain already. Even at that time, this was like researchers – the people really at the cutting edge of ML, they wanted something easier to use that was built with them in mind, rather than them going to a hyperscaler or other cloud, where it's like, 'hey, it's a traditional cloud stuff. If you want these weird GU things, good luck.' I think that's where we got our initial validation from the community, where when we launched it, it was free. We just made a Reddit post. We said, look, we built something for the community. We think it's pretty good. We're not gonna charge you money for this. Honestly, it's running on the GPUs that we have in our basements. So, whatever. All we want you to do is if you wanna use it, tell us what you wanna use it for. If we think it's interesting, we'll get you access to the platform, and all we ask for is that you basically just give us the cold, hard truth, right? And we were incredibly fortunate that we had people that really cared, and they gave us some pretty constructive feedback. But overarchingly, it was like, 'please take my money.' And it doesn't really get better than that. Let's see what we can do to scale from here.

Ryan Donovan: Let's step back and clarify what 'this' is we're talking about – what [was] the thing that you built?

Zhen Lu: Yeah, so our V0 product that we launched day one was all about development environments that had GPUs enabled. So, what our initial users had a lot of success with was they were used to, let's say, going to an AWS of the world and spinning up a virtual machine, and then needing to install everything on the virtual machine, and then figuring out like how the dependency matrix has all sorts of crap that really no one wants to deal with, and it took a lot of time. And so, when we launched Run Pod, we just went, let's start with the first product, it's just development environments, incredibly fast to spin up, incredibly fast to tear down. The stakes are low for you to just go do the things that you need to do. And that resonated really well with the community, which was great. And then, what we found is then, our customers were becoming more successful. Some of them were actually launching real businesses, and then they were pulling us to offer them more and more abstraction, which we were happy to do because we always knew we wanted to build all of those. So, we added on things like serverless autoscaling for truly custom workloads, really fast cold starts, and just really resonating with the developer in the fact that, they need to iterate quickly, right? It doesn't matter if it's traditional software development or AI software development. The key thing to enable development is to be able to iterate quickly because the faster that you can make your changes, the faster you can see those changes reflected, the better you're able to make progress.

Ryan Donovan: When you say you were offering Dev-only environments, does that mean they had to take their production deployments elsewhere?

Zhen Lu: At this time, there wasn't actually that much production. If you think about what people were doing with GPUs at that time, a lot of it was research. Now, there were more traditional HPC workloads. These are things like molecular dynamics, protein folding, pharmaceutical drug discovery, those kinds of things. And we definitely did get some companies that were interested in running those types of workloads on Run Pod. But really our bread and butter was to focus on the emerging AI workloads, and our ability to serve those was more important to us than to serve the more classical ML HPC workloads.

Ryan Donovan: So, when you're getting this feedback from the community, and they're asking for additional, like you said, the serverless quick start functionality, how much of those specs are entirely community driven? And how much of those are you planning ahead and being like, 'let's validate this with the landscape around us?'

Zhen Lu: Yeah, so just to clarify, are you asking where the product development roadmap comes from, or are you asking more about [how] we do have this idea of community templates that we've had since kind of day one?

Ryan Donovan: Yeah, I think I'm asking about the product roadmap.

Zhen Lu: It's a little bit of both. I would say one of the things that we have done very well is, we as technical founders, definitely have a pretty strong opinion and conviction on what developers need, and will continue to need. And our ability to manage that intuition with the fast feedback loops with the community is what has led to our success, right? Because there's a world where we're just like, 'hey, we know better than you all and we're just gonna build it.' But nobody wants to hear that. But then, we also need to offer something that comes from us, right? So, we can't just be like, 'hey, community, tell us what to build.' 'Cause then you'll get the Homer Simpson, every person's car, which also isn't great. So, you have to really do a good job of looking around the corner and asking the right questions. And I would say that's something that we've done very well.

Ryan Donovan: As you're asking these questions, what do you think is the most important sort of clarifying question that you asked of the community, and of the roadmap for development?

Zhen Lu: Yeah. I would say definitely early on it was, to what end? Because one thing that we've been really fortunate to have is a pretty broad user base, and one thing that you'd mentioned in the beginning was this kind of democratization of software development through AI, and that's been really exciting to see. Now, that being said, it makes it pretty difficult to distinguish signal from noise, because at the end of the day, if you wanna build a successful startup, you need to have really good focus. And if you have a small, tight-knit community, they can make that easy for you because they're all saying the same thing. But because of AI and democratization, we have had the fortune of having a lot of different types of developers, and even non-developers, that wanna build on Run Pod. So, we've had to ask very basic things, like what do you ultimately want to accomplish? And honestly, some of our customers are like, 'I just wanna generate stuff for my everyday life for my kids. I just wanna do things.' And we're like, great, we love that you're doing that, and you feel empowered to do that on Run Pod, but you're probably not gonna be our ICP, right? So, we'll build stuff for you, but I can't promise you that we're going to prioritize, whereas other people will be maybe starting in the same vein, but they're like, oh, because I want to build this differentiated experience and I wanna offer it eventually to my customers through a product. And then, we're like, oh, okay, tell us more. How are you thinking about building this product? What are the things that you're having the most trouble with? Is it when you are experimenting, and you're trying to actually make your proof of concept? But then, if that's successful, what's next? Do you know how to go about scaling these things? And what we found is that early on, we had quite a few of our customers say, 'this is amazing. I'm able to run a development environment on your pods product. I've got something that I think is pretty meaningfully differentiated in this market, and I've already got initial number of users—10 to 100 users—and it's not clear to me how I'm gonna actually scale this business from a technology perspective.' And we're like, ' that's perfect because that's what we're really good at, and here's how we can help you and build the product that's gonna help you with that.' And so, being able to have those kinds of conversations is really awesome.

Ryan Donovan: I've always liked reading the sort of comments and stuff about software engineering where people disagree, 'cause it's way more interesting. Everybody says, 'don't read the comments at Hacker News.' And I love it.

Zhen Lu: That's where you get the most constructive disagreement, right?

Ryan Donovan: You're talking about customers coming in and being like, oh, how do I scale? And you say, that's our expertise. So, how do you build a scaling as a product?

Zhen Lu: So, one thing that we have built in from the very beginning was this idea of having– the words have been repeated too much, but they're good. Like, single pane of glass to control all of your required compute. In this case, very AI focused GPU accelerator focused compute. If you recall, we built this originally in our basements, right? And so, I had a server or two in my basement. My Co-founder had a server or two in his basement. And guess what? We had to build this platform that was going to not only accept that these servers are not off the shelf Nvidia, DGX units, right? They didn't even exist at that time. These were just consumer level deep learning machines that we cobbled together. And quite frankly, they didn't even have a case on them. We were zip tying them to racks and stuff. So, it was the most homegrown, hacky thing that you could ever see, but the software needed to work on top of this, not only the hardware layer, but the networking layer, right? We were running on Comcast Xfinity Home Internet, and so, this idea, it needs to run anywhere on anything, has actually really served us well, because what that's allowed us to expand doing is we've now built a global infrastructure partner network, and we're able to onboard them and integrate them into the Run Pod fold, actually, incredibly quickly. And so, we are able to advise them on, hey, these are the things our customers need, this is how things are gonna be specked. And we provide the software layer on top of it to make it look like one unified mesh across the globe. And that is a lot of work. And that's where we've spent quite a lot of our time. The other thing that we did was we adopted a data first paradigm, where a lot of traditional computing has been a workload first paradigm, where you decide where to put your workloads, and then you take your data to your workload. Instead, we're saying that because in AI, the magnitude of data is so large, we need to flip the script and say, we're gonna be data first. We're gonna chunk data all over the world in our data centers, and then we're gonna actually make the workloads go to the data. And that paradigm shift has actually been really impactful in our ability to deliver a really magical user experience.

Ryan Donovan: There's a bunch of things I wanna touch on there, if I can keep them in memory. You talked about starting off with physical servers and then moving to a layer on infrastructure providers. I did an article a couple years ago about Edge Networks, and was sort of surprised at how many of those Edge networks run on other people's compute and infrastructure. How much of your own infrastructure, like physical servers in a room, do you have, and how much of it is infrastructure partners at this point?

Zhen Lu: Yeah. We own negligible amounts. To be quite honest, at the scale that we're at today, it would take a pretty enormous amount of capital to actually own those. We are a software company. That's in our DNA. And so, what we've done is we've created this partner network for Run Pod because we believe that the development community needs that. Developers should not be asked to go find your own GPUs. It's just– they can't do it, right? It's just not a great problem for them to be solving. The developers should be thinking about, how do I create the next magical experience? Not, where am I gonna get the next GPU? Our ability to just create that network, and then actually overlay it with a software layer that can orchestrate it and then provide an interface that makes sense,

Zhen Lu: that's our sweet spot. Not making sure that we can actually build data centers or get power to them. In my mind, they're obviously hard problems to solve, but as a founder, that's boring stuff to me.

Ryan Donovan: You talked about the difficulty for smaller folks to get the multi GPU access. Do you essentially serve as an aggregator for that access?

Zhen Lu: I would say that we are less of an aggregator. There are plenty of aggregators out there, and in my mind, the definition of an aggregator is you're taking a commodity and you're just offering it up. And so, your entire thing is you're offering one place to get access to a commodity. Whereas for us, the supply side of things, the actual underlying hardware and infrastructure, should just not be something that the customer needs to think about. When you come to Run Pod, you're not presented with, ' here are our partners. Choose a partner, and then figure out what you wanna do from there.' They all have different pricing. We don't want and don't think that our customers should have to deal with that. So instead, it's more about [how] you're coming to Run Pod for our platform and the capabilities of the platform, and then, where the underlying compute comes from is not really in that questioning. I think the TLDR is really just: hardware is not something that ideally our customers should have to worry about, right? When they're coming to the Run Pod platform, they should be coming because of the developer experience or increasingly the agent experience, and to be able to do what they need to do, rather than, are you getting GPUs from X, Y, or Z?

Ryan Donovan: I've talked to some folks recently, talking about moving sort of GPU heavy AI workloads within the database and data structures themselves. When you talk about moving it close to the data, are you moving it within the database, or is it alongside it?

Zhen Lu: Let me ask a clarifying question there. So, is this a question around where is the database deployed versus where the actual GPUs are, or is it something else?

Ryan Donovan: It's a question of whether the workloads are within the sort of paradigm and program of the database. Somebody was talking about the governance by architecture operating fully within a data provider as opposed to–

Zhen Lu: Oh, I see what you're saying.

Ryan Donovan: Yeah. Living on the place where that data is deployed.

Zhen Lu: Okay, so you're saying for a company, maybe like Snowflake, if since your data warehouse is already with them, then perhaps you should just go with their AI tools because they're gonna run natively where your data is. I feel like it's not realistic, from the dream, right? If you could just have everything in one place, then it's hard to argue with, if that's realistic for you. However, I would say for the vast majority of companies, even Run Pod, we do use data lake providers for a lot of our data storage, but it's not realistic for us to have all of our GPU compute that we need there, along with all of our data there in one monolith. So, I would say, sure, for some subset of your workloads, you could probably make that work. But then, you have to deal with things like, all right, now I have to split the way that I think about these types of workloads. What if I need to do this other thing? Now I have to teach my developers or whoever's designing this stuff to do it at least two different ways now. And I think that's the major thing that's gonna maybe put a wrench into that ideal.

Ryan Donovan: Can you do that sort of workload split in a kind of microservices paradigm, or does it require a different way of thinking about the architecture of the application?

Zhen Lu: I think it requires a different way of thinking about it, and I would say that in my work with AI agents, the pain of integration is, in some ways, getting a bit less painful, but in other ways, it's getting more painful. The way it's getting less painful is, generally, agents can figure out pretty well how to actually integrate with APIs, as long as the documentation is pretty good. The way it gets more painful is around the access control governance. Are you spending too much money? That kind of stuff, because it can get pretty outta hand pretty quickly if you just give your agents carte blanche with an admin key.

Ryan Donovan: It does seem like people are thinking about software development and agents and all these things in different ways, having to rethink the sort of way that software development is made or done.

Zhen Lu: I remember when I had– I just self-teach how to be a software developer, and I remember early in that journey, I was like, 'what the hell do I focus on?' There's just so much, and I'm looking back at myself then, and I thought I had it hard, then. A developer that's just getting into software development right now has gotta be like, holy heck, where do I even start with any of this stuff? Because there's just so much to learn and it's changing every single day.

Ryan Donovan: I've heard people talk about the changes. You're now a sort of t-shaped developer, right? You're deep focus in one area, but you have to know about the broader systems in software development. Do you think that's true, or can you still have a deep area of focus?

Zhen Lu: I would say there is still a lot of value in having a deep area focus because one of the things that you'll probably hear a lot of software developers say is, it's really easy to generate AI slop if you are asking AI to solve a problem that you don't actually understand. And I would say that it's gonna get better. But for where we are today, we are lacking the subject matter experts and the domain experts to really validate, okay, this, if the code is going into, and these are like the mission critical pieces of software, if the code's gonna get in, somebody needs to understand what the heck it's actually doing. And quite frankly, it's not easy, right? And there aren't that many people in the world that have really honed their craft to that level. And one of the things that I am a little bit afraid of is in a world where AI can solve a lot of hard problems, is there going to be enough incentive for developers to actually get to that level of expertise, even if it's maybe arguably easier or harder to get there? And so, that's something that I'm actually keeping an eye on as this next generation of developers is grown.

Ryan Donovan: That's definitely something I'm reading about and thinking about – is it possible to build craft anymore, or does the definition of craft change?

Zhen Lu: The alternative - so, you talked about T shape. The breadth, I think now, is—and I've heard this from other people, but actually it's something that I've been talking to my executives internally about for quite some time, is that—your ability as a human being to not only have quote unquote good taste, arguable what good taste is, but have taste that resonates with other people; and be able to have the conviction and ability to articulate that taste, whether it's to AI, whether it's to people, is gonna be really important. And so, this idea that maybe software developers are gonna look a little bit more like product managers, I think has a lot to it. And really, that's just, can you just set the right expectations? And is the end state of you setting expectations, and then other people are around you, agents or people, can they create the thing that you've envisioned, and then can you share it with other people? And does that resonate with other people? That is gonna be incredibly important. Being able to marry the, okay, you've got a, whether you wanna call them a software engineer or developer at this point, but you've got somebody that can hold that vision in their mind and supplement with the deep expertise in order to make something magical happen through AI. I think that's gonna be the really important kind of trifecta going forward.

Ryan Donovan: As software engineers are ultimately building products for people, right? And it goes back to Run Pod's origin story, right? You're validating this idea with people, asking the world, 'hey, check this out. Is this good?' Instead of going to an AI tool and saying, 'is this useful for the world?'

Zhen Lu: 100%. One document that we just published internally was guidelines for how we see and should use AI. What are the things that you should be really focusing on using AI for? What are things that you wanna slow down a little bit on? You know, what is an individual contributors expectation for using AI? And these are all not trivial questions to answer, and the answers may change on a weekly and monthly basis. So, our ability as humans to really just keep an eye on things, to make sure that things don't get away from us too easily, I think, is really important. Not because I'm a doomer in AI, but I just feel because the timescales are getting so short, we need to keep extra vigilant, where we're pushing AI to actually have value creation in the world.

Ryan Donovan: That's a good thing to keep in mind for the future AI. It's like you said, with some of the initial customers, some of them were just building toys that were fun for themselves, and other people were like, 'how do I make this a product?'

Zhen Lu: I've been thinking a lot about the concepts of agent identity, and a lot of people are talking about context engineering. Since I'm on the Stack Overflow podcast, I'm curious because Stack Overflow, obviously, I grew up on Stack Overflow, in my tenure as a developer and even not being a developer, you search on Google, [and] Stack Overflow comes up. And there are obviously other variations of Stack Overflow as well for non-development tasks. And I know that you did a podcast on [how] AI uses Wikipedia, right? AI obviously uses Stack Overflow, as well. And I'm curious if you would be interested in just spitballing, what does that future look like? Not necessarily from a Stack Overflow product perspective, but if you've got thoughts on where is the most important place for AI to get context? What, where is that actually ultimately going to end up in the stack? And obviously, I'm happy to reciprocate my opinions on that, as well.

Ryan Donovan: Sure. I am a little biased working Stack Overflow. I think we have a really great set of contexts of answers, and curated too, right? It's almost like data tagging at scale.

Zhen Lu: That's incredibly important.

Ryan Donovan: It's gonna be tough for people when they run into an unanswered question, something that AI doesn't know, and they have to rediscover Stack Overflow. I've seen a lot of takes that ' Stack Overflow is dead,' or 'I don't use it anymore,' but we've been around for 16 years. We've answered a lot of questions. But there's still a dedicated group there that will answer questions, and I think we're only dead if you leave us.

Zhen Lu: Yeah. One of the things that I believe is that companies like Lovable, for example, they can only exist, not only because we've had the innovation for Transformers and generative text models, but if you think about the only reason that they can exist is because we have decades of experience as human beings fighting on how to actually develop traditional software. And companies like Stack Overflow are completely needed for that, right? If you think about it, there's a lot of what amounts to training data in gen AI world that exists in online forums such as Stack Overflow. And I believe that even with Gen AI, software development is changing forever. So, a lovable can exist because we've, as human beings, trained AI on how to actually program and create traditional software. But we have not struggled with AI systems nearly enough to have the same amount of data for AI systems. So, I believe that we as human beings are gonna need to struggle with that for quite some time. Now, is it gonna be accelerated because we have AI to assist us? Yes, I do believe that, but I believe that because human beings need to struggle with it, that a platform like Run Pod needs to be there for human beings to struggle on, alongside agents. And companies like Stack Overflow, like Reddit, like all these bastions of a lot of really technical human knowledge also need to evolve with it. And so, I'm really thinking about what does that look like for the future?

Ryan Donovan: You're touching on something interesting, the struggle with the issues overcoming the friction. Something I've talked about with people is that it's so easy with AI just to get an answer, and that the thing that has been valuable for us in education and learning about software engineering is struggling with issues.

Zhen Lu: Yeah. And struggling together. It's not struggling solo. So, one of the things that we decided to do is we've created a data agent inside of Run Pod that we integrated with Slack, right? We have our own architecture that backs it, and it not only can answer a lot of questions, but it can increasingly act on our behalf. And we made the decision early on to not allow private chats with it because we believe that you learn together, and it's played out, right? So, we only have a group Slack with this agent, so everybody can see every question that's asked. And that's been really cool to watch because these aren't just solo experiences. People will routinely say, 'oh, have you thought about this?' And it will be a collaboration. And I think that is actually a lot of what's missing from agentic development right now, because it's literally– even if you're, let's say you're programming with Claude Code, right? It's a private conversation and all the learnings, if there are learnings from it, they just get lost into the ether. And I think that's a big shame.

Ryan Donovan: And now, if you could post those questions back to your stack internal and have 'em preserve for posterity, it'd be perfect.

Zhen Lu: Yeah, I'm really excited to kinda see what crops up and how products evolve in order to fit that need, because I think it's incredibly important.

Ryan Donovan: All right, folks. It is that time of the show where we shout out somebody who came onto Stack Overflow, dropped some knowledge, shared some curiosity, and earned themselves a badge. Today's for shouting out a Famous Question Badge winner, somebody who asked a question that got over 10,000 views. So, congrats to 'cigol on' for asking, 'Using JavaScript, is it possible to capture the body payload from an outgoing fetch request?' If you're curious about that, we'll have the answer for you in the show notes. I am Ryan Donovan. I edit the blog, host the podcast, here at Stack Overflow. If you have questions, comments, topics to cover, please email me at podcast@stackoverflow.com. And if you wanna reach out to me directly, you can find me on LinkedIn.

Zhen Lu: Ryan, thanks so much for having me. I am Zhen Lu. I am the CEO and one of the Co-founders of Run Pod. We are building the foundational platform for developers to build and run custom AI systems that scale. You can find us at runpod.io. If you are interested, we are hiring, so please, if you're a developer or actually anybody that could work at a very fast growing startup, please shoot out an email to Zhen.Lu@RunPod.io. I'd be happy to speak with you.

Ryan Donovan: Thanks for listening, everyone, and we'll talk to you next time.